                   Gear and Tire Applet User Guide: Tires

As mentioned in the overview the tire input field will accept input in
English or metric sizes. The entire metric size must be input to calculate
diameter, but English sizes only require the diameter in inches to be
entered. Sorry, the Gear and Tire Applet does not support old tire sizing
conventions such has H78 etc. If you actually have tires this old, you'll
have to break out the tape measure and input the diameter in inches.

This section covers the method metric tires are translated to inches and
how tire size changes speed.

How to Convert Metric Tire Sizes

Metric tire sizes are made up of four components: prefix, width, aspect
ratio, and wheel size. It takes three of these components to calculate the
diameter of the tire. It sure is not a very straight forward sizing
convention.

The prefix is used to indicate general use of the tire. The tire input
field trys to ignore the prefix and if your prefix causes an error, just
don't input it. The Gear and Tire Applet currently will successfully ignore
'P' for passenger car and 'LT' for light truck. When in doubt, drop the
prefix.

The width simply the width of the tire in mm. For example the tire size
P215/75R15 has a width of 215mm.

The next component is the aspect ratio. The aspect ratio is the percentage
of the width that makes up the sidewall of the tire. In the above example
the aspect ratio is 75 or 75%, so the sidewall height is 75% of 215 or
161.25mm. If you want the diameter of the tire, you need to take into
acount that the diameter of the tire passes two sections of the side wall.
This means the sidewall takes up 161.25*2 or 322.5mm of the diameter.

The next component is the wheel size. In the above example the wheel size
is 15". If you convert the total sidewall into inches you get
322.5mm*0.03937in/mm or about 12.7". Add that to wheel size and you get the
diameter 15"+12.7" is 27.7". So a P215/75R15 tire has a diameter of about
27.7".

How Tire Sizes Effects Speed

The formula for circumfrence of a circle is used to calculate how tire
sizes effect speed. To calculate the circumfrence of a circle the Gear and
Tire Applet uses the classic formula 2(pi)r, or given the diameter it is
simply the diameter times pi. This means in the above example a 27.7" tire
has a circumfrence of 27.7(pi) or around 87". Every time the tire rotates
once, the vehicle travels 87". This can be converted to miles or kilometers
for calculations of speed given the number of engine revolutions per hour.
Anyway looking at the simple formulat d(pi) it is clear that a larger tire
travels further for each revolutions since it has a bigger circumfrence.
That is why when larger tires are swapped in, you go faster.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Author: Terry L Howe (txh3202@hertz.njit.edu)
July 18, 1996
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
