---
title: "Blanca 9/11/98-9/12/98"
keywords: "Blanca Trail Report"
author: "Terry Howe"
description: "Trail report Blanca trail Colorado."
---
# Blanca 9/11/98-9/12/98

September 11-12, 1998  
by Terry Howe  

Roger Wild, Doug Nelson, and Terry Howe headed out of the Southgate parking lot after escaping the clutches or work Friday night. Roger brought Linda and her daughter Erin along for the ride. We got to the Blanca trail head around 10pm and soon headed up the trail. We drove until just before Jaws 1 in the dark with virtually no incident. Roger got slightly hung up on a boulder, but managed to work off of it. It didn't take long to set up camp and hit the hay.

We got started early the next morning because we knew there was a big crowd at the bottom from the Southwest Association. We all made Jaws 1 with no problem, it is a real eye opener first thing in the morning.

When we got near Jaws 2 we were flagged down by some tired looking campers. It seems they got their Mercedes G-Wagen stuck on the obstacle and they needed some help. Much to their relief, we winched it back to safety and we drove over without incident. The G-Wagen decided to follow us and he made the obstacle with Roger spotting.

Everyone made Jaws 2 1/2, Jaws 3, and Jaws 4 without much trouble and we had lunch up at the lake. Some of us decided to hike up to the first upper lake. After our hike we headed back down and past the Southwest crew on the way up.

On the way down we ran into a crew from Tomken Machine and one guy bent his tie rod on Jaws 2. I sold him my spare tie rod and proceeded to get stuck on Jaws 2 going down. I winched off and we made it down to the bottom before dark.