---
title: "Eagle Rock 10/25/98"
keywords: "Eagle Rock Trail Report"
author: "Terry Howe"
description: "Trail report Eagle Rock trail Colorado."
---
# Eagle Rock 10/25/98

October 25, 1998  
by Leah Bork  

At Southgate was Curtis, Bill & Glenna, Joe, Doug & Justin (who fortunately found us after going to Red Rocks first - it's good we always leave late!) and guests Paul with friend Scott and Audrey & John. And of course our leader Ray with Leah, Rose and Nathan. 

We stopped at the trailhead to lock in and air down and immediate road work was needed. Curtis dragged a heavy log over with his truck and we blocked a new entrance across the creek that some rude people had started.

On the big hill Audrey had a little trouble in John's truck when his directions took her up the challenging route in the middle, but she did it again her way and made it. Justin drove it smooth as silk with a big grin on his face! The rest of us went with Joe taking the bypass. Curtis and Joe both had to fix their driveshaft grease caps after trying the most challenging part of the hill. 

At the off-camber area we built a large dirt and log wall to prevent people from driving off the road when it's blocked by snow. This area is where someone's jeep slid into the tree and borrowed Ray's come-along last time. This became our impromptu lunch spot.

Then Ray decided to go a different way out and stayed left a the forks around Mt. Baldy. We encountered another difficult hill. Ray had trouble because his engine kept cutting out. We had picked up a black full size Blazer along the way and this visitor kept asking Ray if he needed to be winched up!! He has no idea the stuff we do!! 

We decided to cross the main road and go to Bullpark. We ended up at "hot dog" or "hamburger" rock, depending on how you look at it, and saw a beautiful view of Victor and surrounding reservoirs.

It was cool on this trail how open diffs and locked up vehicles can each have a challenging run up the same hills by choosing different routes.